One Prometheus server (deployed by default by the Karbon installer) is going to monitor the Kubernetes internal components and state.
Another Prometheus server is going to monitor any other applications deployed in your cluster.

Step 1:
1. Create a namespace named as monitoring-apps(this is where we will have our 2nd Promethius instance running).
2. Create a service account named as prometheus in the same namespace as above
3. Create Cluster Role to define the required access needed by the service account above and Cluster Role Binding to bind the service account with the Cluster Role

To apply all the above run the below:
kubectl apply -f monitoring-rbac.yaml

Step 2:
1. Creating a new Prometheus instance in monitoring-apps namespace
 1.1 Defining number of replicas as 2
 1.2 Rentention as 30 days
 1.3 Mapping it with the above service account named prometheus
 1.4 Defining a Service monitor selector label as "monitoring: apps" apply this label to the apps which you would like to monitor
 1.5 Set the alert manager to use the ntnx-system defined alert manager named alertmanager-main
 1.6 Set the CPU requests limit to 1m cpu and 2Gi memory
 1.7 Define a persistent stiorage from default storage class of 100Gi
 1.8 Check and define the same version of prometheus used in the cluster already
kubectl get prometheus k8s -n ntnx-system  -o jsonpath='{.spec.version}'

2. Create the service for this prometheus instance so that graphana can add it as a data source
 2.1 use the same namesspace
 2.2 expose it on port 9090

To apply the above run the below:

kubectl apply -f prom-inst-svc.yaml


Step 3:
1. Create a service monitor resource that will automatically configure Prometheus to collect metrics of all service with a specific label

To apply the above run the below:

kubectl apply -f svc-mon.yaml

Step 4:
1. Add and update Grafana repo

helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update

Step 5:
1. Create grafana namespace

kubectl create ns grafana

Step 4: (grafana-values.yaml)
1. Create Grafana values file with specific values to be passed to the grafana charts
 1.1 Define the Service type as Load Balancer so that it could be exposed externally and accessible  1.2 Define a persistent storage of 100 Gi for Grafana
 1.3 list the required plugins
 1.4 define the datasources both from ntnx-system and monitoring-apps

Step 5:
1. Install Grafana helm chart with values generated in step 4

helm install grafana grafana/grafana --namespace grafana -f grafana-values.yaml

Step 6:
1. get the ip address of the grafana service
kubectl get svc --namespace grafana grafana -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}'

2.Get the Admin password to login into grafana 

kubectl get secret --namespace grafana grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo

step 7: 
1. Deploy a sample app and expose it through a service. make sure to add the "monitoring: apps" label

kubectl apply -f example-app.yaml


